[ASCII-1442] components documentation.  Explaining how the status component works and how to add a status provider to your component (#26830)
DataDog/datadog-agent: docs/public/components/shared_features/status.md

# Status

Components can register a status provider. When the status command is executed, we will populate the information displayed using all the status providers.

## Status Providers

There are two types of status providers:

> - Header Providers: those providers are displayed at the top of the status output. This section is reserved for the most important information about the agent, such as agent version, hostname, host info, metadata, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Header Providers: these providers are displayed at the top of the status output. This section is reserved for the most important information about the agent, such as agent version, hostname, host info, or metadata.
```

> - Regular Providers: those providers will be rendered after all the header providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Regular Providers: these providers are rendered after all the header providers.
```

	// Index is used to choose the order in which the header information is displayed.
	Index() int
	// When displaying the Text output the name is render as a header
	Name() string
	JSON(verbose bool, stats map[string]interface{}) error
	Text(verbose bool, buffer io.Writer) error
	HTML(verbose bool, buffer io.Writer) error
}
```

### Regular Providers Interface

```go
// Provider interface
type Provider interface {
	// Name is used to sort the status providers alphabetically.
	Name() string
	// Section is used to group the status providers.
	// When displaying the Text output the section is render as a header
	Section() string
	JSON(verbose bool, stats map[string]interface{}) error
	Text(verbose bool, buffer io.Writer) error
	HTML(verbose bool, buffer io.Writer) error
}
```

## Adding a status provider

To add a status provider to your component, you need to declare it in the return value of its `NewComponent()` function.

The status component provides helper functions to create status providers: `NewInformationProvider` and `NewHeaderInformationProvider`.

Also, the status component has helper functions to render text and HTML output: `RenderText` and `RenderHTML.` 

> The signature for both functions is: `(templateFS embed.FS, template string, buffer io.Writer, data any)`.

Reviewer: Optional formatting
````suggestion
The signature for both functions is: 
```
(templateFS embed.FS, template string, buffer io.Writer, data any)
```
````

    var templatesFS embed.FS

    // Name renders the name
    func (c *compressor) Name() string {
      return "Compression"
    }

    // Index renders the index
    func (c *compressor) Section() int {
      return "Compression"
    }

    // JSON populates the status map
    func (c *compressor) JSON(_ bool, stats map[string]interface{}) error {
      c.populateStatus(stats)

      return nil
    }

    // Text renders the text output
    func (c *compressor) Text(_ bool, buffer io.Writer) error {
      return status.RenderText(templatesFS, "compressor.tmpl", buffer, c.getStatusInfo())
    }

    // HTML renders the html output
    func (c *compressor) HTML(_ bool, buffer io.Writer) error {
      return status.RenderHTML(templatesFS, "compressorHTML.tmpl", buffer, c.getStatusInfo())
    }

    func (c *compressor) populateStatus(stats map[string]interface{}) {
      // Here we populate whatever informatiohn we want to display for our component
      stats["compressor"] = ...
    }

    func (c *compressor) getStatusInfo() map[string]interface{} {
      stats := make(map[string]interface{})

      c.populateStatus(stats)

      return stats
    }
    ```
    
## Testing

> Ensuring that the status output is being displayed as expected is a critical part of your component development. 
> We highly encourage you to add tests to your components, giving you the confidence that your status output is accurate and reliable.  
> For our example above, testing the status output is as easy as testing the result of calling `JSON`, `Text` and `HTML`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 A critical part of your component development is ensuring that the status output is displayed as expected is. We highly encourage you to add tests to your components, giving you the confidence that your status output is accurate and reliable.  

For our example above, testing the status output is as easy as testing the result of calling `JSON`, `Text` and `HTML`.
```

# Status

Components can register a status provider. When the status command is executed, we will populate the information displayed using all the status providers.

## Status Providers

There are two types of status providers:

> - Header Providers
> - Regular Providers

Reviewer 2: I think we should explain the difference here rather than inside the "header provider" section.

```suggestion
- Header Providers: those providers are displayed at the top of the status output. This section is reserved for the most important information about the agent, such as agent version, hostname, host info, metadata, etc.
- Regular Providers: those providers will be rendered after all the header providers,
```

Each provider has the freedom to configure how they want to display their information for the three types of status output: JSON, Text, and HTML. 
This flexibility allows you to tailor the output to best suit your component's needs.

> The JSON and Text outputs are displayed within the status CLI, while the HTML output is used for the agent GUI. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The JSON and Text outputs are displayed within the status CLI, while the HTML output is used for the Agent GUI. 
```

To guarantee consistent output, we order the status providers internally. The ordering mechanism is different depending on the status provider. 
We order the header providers based on an index using the ascending direction.

> The regular providers are ordered based on their names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The regular providers are ordered alphabetically based on their names.
```

        "github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/status"
    )

    type Requires struct {
    }

    type Provides struct {
        Comp compression.Component
        Status status.InformationProvider
    }

    type compressor struct {
    }

    // NewComponent returns an implementation for the compression component
    func NewComponent(reqs Requires) Provides {
        comp := &compressor{}

        return Provides{
            Comp: comp,
            Status: status.NewInformationProvider(&comp)
        }
    }

    //
    // Since we are using the compressor as status provider we need to implement the status interface on our component
    //

    //go:embed status_templates
    var templatesFS embed.FS

    // Name renders the name
    func (c *compressor) Name() string {
      return "Compression"
    }

    // Index renders the index
    func (c *compressor) Section() int {
      return "Compression"
    }

    // JSON populates the status map
    func (c *compressor) JSON(_ bool, stats map[string]interface{}) error {
      c.populateStatus(stats)

      return nil
    }

    // Text renders the text output
    func (c *compressor) Text(_ bool, buffer io.Writer) error {

>       return status.RenderText(templatesFS, "compressor.tmpl", buffer, ia.getStatusInfo())

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      return status.RenderText(templatesFS, "compressor.tmpl", buffer, c.getStatusInfo())
```

    }

    // HTML renders the html output
    func (c *compressor) HTML(_ bool, buffer io.Writer) error {

>       return status.RenderHTML(templatesFS, "compressorHTML.tmpl", buffer, ia.getStatusInfo())

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      return status.RenderHTML(templatesFS, "compressorHTML.tmpl", buffer, c.getStatusInfo())
```
